>> Scott Moss: Next thing is unions, which
literally is the same thing as interface.
The only difference is that a union,
the types that are grouped
together are expected to not
have any fields in common.
So a good example of that would
be something like Search,
where if you had a global search in your
app, that you can just start typing and
it would return all
different types of things?
That's where that would come in.
Whereas none of these things probably
have, the only even common property is ID,
that's it.
Everything else is so different.
That is the only difference between
a union and an interface, so
let's just walk through that syntax
just to show you want I'm talking about.
So let's make a,
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
we got a person here and
we've got animals.
So this would be a good example.
So let's make a union,
>> Scott Moss: For our search result.
And we want to be able to search for
cats, dogs, and people.
Cats and dogs are similar, we know
that cuz they have an interface, but
a person is not so similar to an animal.
Just by looking at our type,
a person as an ID, a name, an age, and
a favorite food.
A dog or cat has neither of those,
so there's no similarities.
But we still want to be able to have
an array of either one of those.
And that's where Union comes in.
How do we describe to
GraphQL that we want one or
many of these different types
when they have nothing in common?
That's a union.
So what we'll do is we'll
use the keyword union here.
We'll give it a name,
I'll call it Search result.
>> Scott Moss: Equals, and then what you
do here is you start describing the types
you want them to equal.
So, in this case I want a person type.
And then you use this character here,
or this pipe,
to say that you have another
type that you want to put here.
You might think I can just do Animal
to do a shortcut for dog and cat, but
you can't because the interface doesn't
know about anything that implements it.
It's just an interface.
And an interface is not a type.
It's an interface.
You can only put types here,
non-scholar types.
So I also could not put string here,
or ID or float or boolean.
I couldn't do that.
I could only put custom types here.
This is the only thing you can put here.
So in that case I can only put dog,
and I can only put cat.
>> Scott Moss: So now I have a union
called Search result that allows
me to return a person, a dog or a cat.
Everybody following me so far?
All right, so the next thing is let's make
a query for that, we'll call it Search.
>> Scott Moss: And
it's not gonna take arguments,
it's gonna take back
an array of search results.
>> Scott Moss: Let's just go
mock this out right quick.
>> Scott Moss: So, the first thing
is very similar to an interface,
we need to tell GraphQL how to
resolve these types from the union.
So what we will do is make a top level
look called Search Result cuz that's
the name of the union.
>> Scott Moss: Open this up over here.
There we go.
So Search Result, and then just like for
the interface we need a resolve type here,
so that's what we'll do.
We'll resolve type,
we'll get back a search result.
We don't know what this is yet,
all we know is it's some entity.
So based on,
>> Scott Moss: A dog, a cat and
a person,
how could we tell which one's which?
We know the difference between a dog and
a cat is a type, but
what's the difference between a dog and
a cat and a person?
>> Speaker 2: A person
doesn't have a type.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
a person doesn't have a type, there we go.
So let's do that.
So what we can do is we can
say if .searchresult.type,
we know this is a person.
So this return person, with a string.
That's the name of the type.
Else we'll literally do this,
I could just copy this,
>> Scott Moss: And
change that to Search Result.
>> Scott Moss: Everybody
following me there?
So if it's not a type it's a person,
if it does have a type and
it's cat it's a cat,
if it's a dog, it's a dog.
>> Scott Moss: So next thing is let's just
write the resolver for the search query.
So we'll slide up here underneath
Query and we'll type in Search here.
And let's just mock this out and
return an array of at least
one of each of those things.
So we've got a person
that's gonna cover this.
Boom.
We got a cat dog here.
>> Scott Moss: And then get rid of and
I'll make another for cat.
>> Scott Moss: Cat's only have
two lives left, dangerous cat.
All right, so now we've got that.
We could create this, so let's save it.
Let's start this thing.
>> Scott Moss: And what we are gonna
do is you guys go ahead and search.
It doesn't take any arguments,
and then if we get back a person,
let's get the name, and
the ID, and the faveFood.
If we get back a cat, let's get the lives.
And if we get back a dog,
let's get back to personality.
And we run that.
And you can see when we get
back an array of three things.
All of which are different types.
A person, a cat and a dog.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Can you do a fragment
on the interface to get the type?
>> Scott Moss: Can you do a fragment
on an interface to get the type?
So,
>> Scott Moss: I see what you're saying.
In the query.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Scott Moss: Got you.
Yes, so if I wanted to get
the type of both cat and
dog, could I do an interface here?
Sorry, can I do a fragment here?
>> Speaker 2: As a separate fragment for
like, fragment on animal type?
>> Scott Moss: No, I don't think
you can do fragments on interfaces.
I've actually never tried this,
let's try it.
I'm down on trying new things.
Fragment, Animal type on,
>> Scott Moss: Let
me auto complete it on animal type.
So let's try that.
>> Scott Moss: And
we'll type, so far so good.
Yeah, that works.
It's pretty dope.
I would imagine, yeah,
they would have to do that cuz
there'd be no other way around it.
Cuz if that means you would have to
make a fragment for each fragment,
if they didn't let you do that.
You have to say fragment dogType on Dog.
Fragment dogType or catType on Cat, and
they both would have the same fields.
So yeah, that would be really
ridiculous if that was the case.